In this step, we will install ETCD using Helm.

### Step: Install the Bitnami ETCD chart

We found some issues with the bitnami/etcd chart (couldn't achieve quorum after loosing it and couldn't shut down the statefulset without loosing data because it has a prePost command that deletes data whenever the container stops). Since Portworx has no issue making data available when a Pod restarts we removed the preStop command and improved resiliency. We also added a parameter to support configuring [STORK](https://github.com/libopenstorage/stork) as the scheduler so we can get better performance by letting it place our PODS on the nodes where the data is stored.  

Let's git clone the forked chart and use it to deploy ETCD.
```
git clone https://github.com/fmrtl73/charts-1/
cd charts-1/bitnami/etcd
```{{execute T1}}

Now we will use Helm to install ETCD, with name _px-etcd_ and with the _persistence.storageClass_ parameter used to pass in the name of the StorageClass we just created. For a complete list of available parameters check out the chart's repo [here](https://github.com/fmrtl73/charts-1/tree/master/bitnami/etcd).

```
helm install --name px-etcd \
    --set auth.rbac.enabled=false \
    --set persistence.storageClass=px-ha-sc \
    --set statefulset.replicaCount=3 \
    .
```{{execute T1}}

That's it! Isn't helm great? We think it is.

### Step: Wait for ETCD to start

Run the below command and wait for the ETCD pod to be in ready state.
```
watch kubectl get pods -o wide
```{{execute T1}}

When the ETCD pods (px-etcd-etcd-0, px-etcd-etcd-1, px-etcd-etcd-2) are in Running and Ready 1/1 state then hit ```clear```{{execute interrupt}} to ctrl-c and clear the screen. Be patient, if it's staying in Pending state for a while it's because it has to fetch the docker image.
